# 풀 문제 
1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 23, 26, 30, 31, 33, 41, 42, 53
# 문제


5-30. Refer to the counter circuit of Figure 5-48 and answer the following:

(a)* If the counter starts at 000, what will be the count after 13 clock

pulses? After 99 pulses? After 256 pulses?

(b) If the counter starts at 100, what will be the count after 13 pulses?

After 99 pulses? After 256 pulses?

(c) Connect a fourth J-K FF (X3) to this counter and draw the state

transition diagram for this four-bit counter. If the input clock fre-

quency is 80 MHz, what will the waveform at X3 look like?

5-31. Refer to the binary counter of Figure 5-48. Change it by connecting X0

to the CLK of flip-flop X1, and X1 to the CLK of flip-flop X2. Start with

all FFs in the 1 state, and draw the various FF output waveforms (X0,

X1, X2,) for 16 input pulses. Then list the sequence of FF states as was

done in Figure 5-49. This counter is called a down counter. Why?

5-33.* (a) How many FFs are required to build a binary counter that counts

from 0 to 511?

(b) Determine the frequency at the output of the last FF of this coun-

ter for an input clock frequency of 4 MHz.

(c) What is the counter’s MOD number?

(d) If the counter is initially at zero, what count will it hold after 3,500

pulses?

5-41.* Figure 5-98 shows three nonretriggerable one-shots connected in a

timing chain that produces three sequential output pulses. Note the

“1” in front of the pulse on each OS symbol to indicate nonretrig-

gerable operation. Draw a timing diagram showing the relationship

between the input pulse and the three OS outputs. Assume an input

pulse duration of 10 ms.

5-42. A retriggerable OS can be used as a pulse-frequency detector that

detects when the frequency of a pulse input is below a predeter-

mined value. A simple example of this application is shown in Figure

5-99. The operation begins by momentarily closing switch SW1.

(a) Describe how the circuit responds to input frequencies above

1 kHz.

(b) Describe how the circuit responds to input frequencies below

1 kHz.

(c) How would you modify the circuit to detect when the input fre-

quency drops below 50 kHz?

5-53. Refer to the circuit of Figure 5-102. Assume that the ICs are of the

TTL logic family. The Q waveform was obtained when the circuit was

tested with the input signals shown and with the switch in the “up”

position; it is not correct. Consider the following list of faults, and for

each indicate “yes” or “no” as to whether it could be the actual fault.

Explain each response.

(a)* Point X is always LOW due to a faulty switch.

(b)* U1 pin 1 is internally shorted to VCC .

(c) The connection from U1-3 to U2-3 is open.

(d) There is a solder bridge between pins 6 and 7 of U1.




